CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Craft Agents

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Craft Agents! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) runtime
- Node.js 18+ (for some tooling)
- macOS, Linux, or Windows

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/lukilabs/craft-agents-oss.git
   cd craft-agents-oss
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   bun install
   ```

3. Set up environment variables:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your credentials
   ```

4. Run in development mode:
   ```bash
   bun run electron:dev
   ```

## Development Workflow

### Branch Naming

Use descriptive branch names:
- `feature/add-new-tool` - New features
- `fix/resolve-auth-issue` - Bug fixes
- `refactor/simplify-agent-loop` - Code refactoring
- `docs/update-readme` - Documentation updates

### Making Changes

1. Create a feature branch from `main`
2. Make your changes
3. Run type checking: `bun run typecheck:all`
4. Commit your changes with clear, descriptive messages
5. Push to your fork and create a pull request

### Code Style

- We use TypeScript throughout the codebase
- Follow existing patterns in the codebase
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Add comments for complex logic

### Type Checking

Before submitting a PR, ensure all type checks pass:

```bash
bun run typecheck:all
```

## Pull Request Process

1. **Title**: Use a clear, descriptive title
2. **Description**: Explain what the PR does and why
3. **Testing**: Describe how you tested the changes
4. **Screenshots**: Include screenshots for UI changes

### PR Template

```markdown
## Summary
Brief description of changes

## Changes
- Change 1
- Change 2

## Testing
How you tested these changes

## Screenshots (if applicable)
```

## Project Structure

```
craft-agents/
├── apps/
│   ├── electron/    # Desktop GUI (primary interface)
│   └── tui/         # Terminal CLI (deprecated)
└── packages/
    ├── core/        # @craft-agent/core - Shared types
    ├── shared/      # @craft-agent/shared - Business logic
    └── ui/          # @craft-agent/ui - React components
```

## Key Areas

- **Agent Logic**: `packages/shared/src/agent/`
- **Authentication**: `packages/shared/src/auth/`
- **MCP Integration**: `packages/shared/src/mcp/`
- **UI Components**: `packages/ui/src/`
- **Electron App**: `apps/electron/`

## Questions?

- Open an issue for bugs or feature requests
- Start a discussion for questions or ideas

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the Apache License 2.0.

Commit message:

rebrand: rename craft-agent to pmi-agent, new icon, install-deps script
- Rename all branding from Craft Agent to PMI Agent across 250+ files
- Replace app icon with pixel art PMI logo (icns, ico, png, svg, Assets.car)
- Add scripts/install-deps.sh for automated dependency setup
- Add acp-client pre-build step in electron-build-main.ts
- Rewrite README.md for PMI Agent with install instructions
- Rename craft-agent.ts to pmi-agent.ts
- Update electron-builder.yml (appId, productName, artifactName)
- Update all @craft-agent/ imports to @pmi-agent/
- Update config paths ~/.craft-agent/ to ~/.pmi-agent/
- Update deep link scheme craftagents:// to pmiagent://

Amp-Thread-ID: https://ampcode.com/threads/T-019c79e6-3cad-70af-b9e1-a6858f482696
Co-authored-by: Amp <amp@ampcode.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to PMI Agent

Thank you for your interest in contributing to PMI Agent! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) runtime
- Node.js 18+ (for some tooling)
- macOS, Linux, or Windows

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/lukilabs/pmi-agents-oss.git
   cd pmi-agents-oss
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   bun install
   ```

3. Set up environment variables:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your credentials
   ```

4. Run in development mode:
   ```bash
   bun run electron:dev
   ```

## Development Workflow

### Branch Naming

Use descriptive branch names:
- `feature/add-new-tool` - New features
- `fix/resolve-auth-issue` - Bug fixes
- `refactor/simplify-agent-loop` - Code refactoring
- `docs/update-readme` - Documentation updates

### Making Changes

1. Create a feature branch from `main`
2. Make your changes
3. Run type checking: `bun run typecheck:all`
4. Commit your changes with clear, descriptive messages
5. Push to your fork and create a pull request

### Code Style

- We use TypeScript throughout the codebase
- Follow existing patterns in the codebase
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Add comments for complex logic

### Type Checking

Before submitting a PR, ensure all type checks pass:

```bash
bun run typecheck:all
```

## Pull Request Process

1. **Title**: Use a clear, descriptive title
2. **Description**: Explain what the PR does and why
3. **Testing**: Describe how you tested the changes
4. **Screenshots**: Include screenshots for UI changes

### PR Template

```markdown
## Summary
Brief description of changes

## Changes
- Change 1
- Change 2

## Testing
How you tested these changes

## Screenshots (if applicable)
```

## Project Structure

```
pmi-agents/
├── apps/
│   ├── electron/    # Desktop GUI (primary interface)
│   └── tui/         # Terminal CLI (deprecated)
└── packages/
    ├── core/        # @pmi-agent/core - Shared types
    ├── shared/      # @pmi-agent/shared - Business logic
    └── ui/          # @pmi-agent/ui - React components
```

## Key Areas

- **Agent Logic**: `packages/shared/src/agent/`
- **Authentication**: `packages/shared/src/auth/`
- **MCP Integration**: `packages/shared/src/mcp/`
- **UI Components**: `packages/ui/src/`
- **Electron App**: `apps/electron/`

## Questions?

- Open an issue for bugs or feature requests
- Start a discussion for questions or ideas

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the Apache License 2.0.
